---
layout: post
title: Blog 7
---

### 1. What are some of the reasons that might warrant the need to use a search system on a website?
Websites that play host to large amounts of content often find that search systems offer the best method to channel users to content. These systems allow users to arrive where they want, sooner, with less clicks. This can result in a lower bounce rate for users increasing revenue for the website.

---

### 2. Why is an Information Architect interested in search systems?
For a website that hosts content, the most valuable service the website offers is that content. However if the content is unreachable then the value is mute. Search systems make it easier for users to access content.

---

### 3. Describe the core components of a search engine.

* Indexing and Crawling
    - Part of the _discovery_ phase where the search engine _discovers_ new pages by _crawling_ the web and _indexing_ what it finds.
* Algorithms
    - Used to process pages and generate search results.
* Query language
    - What the search engine will actually use when performing a search.
    - Typically the result of your _interpreted_ search.

---

### 4. What is a search zone? What are the approaches for creating search zones?
A search zone is a part of the page that is indexed separately to the rest of the page. Doing so limits the scope of the search. A search zone could be created by limiting a crawler to pages that are within a certain domain name.

---

### 5. Explain the difference between recall and precision in terms of search results.
Recall describes the search engines ability to return a large number of documents.

Precision describes the search engines ability to return documents that are very relevant.

---

### 6. Consider the following search engines:

To calculate:

* Relevant Documents are __all__ documents that are relevant to the search
* Retrieved Documents are the list of documents returned by the search.
* `relDocs ∩ retDocs` is equal to the number of relevant documents returned by the search.

* Recall:
    - `|relDocs ∩ retDocs| ÷ |relDocs|`
* Precision:
    - `|relDocs ∩ retDocs| ÷ |retDocs|`

* Search engine A retrieves 600 documents out of a total of 8,200 documents. Out of the 600 documents retrieved, only 500 are relevant out of a total of 923 relevant documents. Calculate the recall and precision rates for the query.
    - 600 Retrieved Documents
    - 923 Relevant Documents
    - Recall
        + `500 ÷ 923 = 54%`
    - Precision
        + `500 ÷ 600 = 83%`

* Search engine B retrieves 131 documents out of a total of 8,200 documents. Out of the 131 documents retrieved, all 131 are relevant out of a total of 923 relevant documents. Calculate the recall and precision rates for the query.
    - 131 Retrieved Documents
    - 923 Relevant Documents
    - Recall
        + `131 ÷ 923 = 14%`
    - Precision
        + `131 ÷ 131 = 100%`

* Search engine C retrieves 700 documents out of a total of 8,200 documents. Out of the 700 documents retrieved, 0 are relevant out of a total of 923 relevant documents. Calculate the recall and precision rates for the query.
    - 700 Retrieved Documents
    - 923 Relevant Documents
    - Recall
        + `0 ÷ 923 = 0%`
    - Precision
        + `0 ÷ 700 = 0%`

* Search engine D retrieves 5,000 documents out of a total of 8,200 documents. Out of the 5,000 documents retrieved, 923 are relevant out of a total of 923 relevant documents. Calculate the recall and precision rates for the query.
    - 5000 Retrieved Documents
    - 923 Relevant Documents
    - Recall
        + `923 ÷ 923 = 100%`
    - Precision
        + `923 ÷ 5000 = 18%`

---

### 7. What is the purpose of a stemming tool? Explain the difference between strong and weak stemming. Provide examples of strong and weak stemming.
Stemming is the process of modifying a words _base_ to produce words that _stem_ from this word. 

* Weak stemming involves exclusively adding to the existing word.
    - `swimmer -> swimmers`.
* Strong stemming involves first breaking the word into its base before stemming.
    - `swimmer -> swim`
        + `swim -> swims`
        + `swim -> swimmer`
        + `swim -> swimmers`
        + `swim -> swimming`

Strong stemming naturally leads to much more broad results then weak stemming as it does not limit itself to just adding to the word.

---

### 8. What are two main issues to consider when displaying the results of a search?
* How to present the results found
    - What parts of the content should be displayed and how.
* How to order results found
    - What results are best / most relevant

---

### 9. How many documents should you display in a search result?
Best to display less if the results are accompanied by a lot of the results content and more if not. However it also depends on a lot of other factors such as:

* The users connection speed
* The users monitor size / resolution
* The users preference

As a result it is best and most common to display a handful of results (~10) and let the user change it to more if they wish.

 ---

### 10. Describe some approaches for sorting and ranking search results for display.
Sorting results can be done alphabetically, chronologically or by any of the meta data tags associated with the results content. 

* If searching for music you may wish to sort by
    - Alphabetical order
        + By song name
        + By artist name
        + By album name
    - Chronologically
        + By date released
        + By date added to library
        + By date of album release
    - Even by length

Ranking search results is a complex topic, and there can be numerous approaches. including:

* Ranking by popularity
* Ranking by user ratings
* Ranking by search term occurrence rates (an algorithm)
* Ranking can favor results that have been paid for

---

### 11. When sorting search results alphabetically, why is it a good idea to omit articles such as _a_ and _the_?
Terms like _a_ and _the_ are so common in English that it is likely that they occur in almost every textual document in existence. Therefore these words effectively convey no information at all. Omitting these when sorting prevents having far more documents sorted under _T_ Or _A_ then should be resulting in a set of search results that will be easier to navigate.

---

### 12. How do _Best Bets_ ranking operate?
_Best bets_ typically involve a mechanism that bypasses the typical ranking algorithms for search results and places the _Best Bet_ for a search at the top. Where the _Best Bets_ are typically chosen by a expert or by users.

---

### 13. What are four key factors to consider when designing a search system interface?

* What users will search for.
* How much data is there to search through.
* User subject matter knowledge (do users know what they are searching for)
* The type of information users will be searching through. (images vs videos vs documents)

---

### 14. What are some of the ways search system designers can help a user when no results are returned for a query?
When a user gets zero results it can be worthwhile suggesting the user try related or similar search terms.

---

### 25. Design a search system for your drupal site.

#TODO
