---
layout: post
title: Blog 5
---

### 1. What is the goal of a label?
A label is used to annotate something.

---

### 2. Why is labeling an important aspect of web site design?
A labeling system allows a user to better know what a piece of content is about. This helps users understand the site better.

---

### 3. What are the aspects of a good labeling system?
A good labeling system:

* Should convey where a user is.
* Should convey what a user is looking at.
* Should contain keywords relevant to the website.
* Should be consistent with the websites taxonomy.

---

### 4. List and describe the varieties of labels?

* Document Labels
    - These should be short but should also be adequate to describe the content they contain.
    - Should make sense to human readers.
* Content Labels
    - Headings
    - Subheadings
    - Image/video headings and captions
    - Tags
* Navigation Labels
    - Provide visual cues
        - Where am I?
        - Where can I go?

---

### 5. Why do index terms facilitate faster searching and make browsing easier?
These are a form of controlled vocabulary that can be used to suggest search terms for users. This allows users to quickly arrive at the content for which they are searching for.

---

### 6. Discuss the advantages and disadvantages of using iconic labels.
Iconic labels is a term describing the practice of using icons to label content.

Pros:

* Can look nice and be easy to recognize.
* Some are ubiquitous eg house representing the _home_ page.
* Quick for returning users.

Cons:

* May be difficult for newer users to understand.
* Not suitable where there are a lot of labels.

---

### 7. What is the purpose of _scope notes_?
Scope notes are a way to restrict meaning. Scope notes are what you __want__ to share with the world. they are what are within _scope._

---

### 8. How do homonyms and synonyms affect label design?
Both can create issues for label design, homonyms more so, as they leave users unsure what they are actually meaning. A way around this is to use a synonym for the homonym.

---

### 9. Why is it important to be consistent when designing a labeling system?
Consistency is a very important aspect of a good labeling system. Consistency enables recognition, and when a user can quickly recognize a label they can quickly understand their surroundings.

---

### 10. Why is it better to have a narrower scope when designing labels?
A site with too many labels can quickly become a site with useless labels. Consider a website with 100 items of content and 100 unique labels. The content would either be very different and perhaps not tie into the theme of the site, or the content is poorly labeled and difficult to navigate.

---

### 11. Describe the key issues that affect the consistency of a labeling system.

* Style
    - Should be consistent with _upper_ vs _lower_ case, _camelCase_ vs *snake_case*
    - Should have a consistent presentation. Font, font size, color etc.
* Granularity
    - Don't be overly specific or broad when labeling. Keep all labels at a single level of granularity.
* Remember the audience
    - Don't label beyond their comprehension level.
    - Don't overly simplify either.

---

### 12. What are the main sources of labeling systems?
Your own website, others/competitors websites, controlled vocabulary and thesauri.

---

### 13. Create a labeling table for a web site of your choice. Comment on the quality of the labeling system. Are there any inconsistencies? How would you improve the labeling system?

[Site Here](http://github.com)

Link Title   | Page Title     
-------------|------------
Landing Page | Github
Issues       | Issues
Gist         | Create a new Gist
Icon         | Notifications

This page uses a fairly consistent labeling scheme except with notification where the page creators have decided to use an iconic label. This choice is sensible as the bell icon for notification is a fairly command and recognizable representation of this.

The pages do not include header titles the header of the pages is consistently the search bar and header with the listed buttons. Hence these are not included in the table.

---

### 14. What are the advantages of using controlled vocabularies and thesauri as a source for labeling systems? Provide some examples of controlled vocabulary and thesauri resources.
These two resources use words that are most relevant to the content and so will be most recognizable and will improve consistency throughout labels.

---

### 15. Describe the three most important sources for creating a new labeling system.

* Subject matter experts 
    - These people best understand the content.
* Content Analysis
    - This can make use of tools to automatically analyze and infer terms and labels from content.
* Content Authors
    - Authors best know what the content is that they have written. This can result in highly relevant labeling.

---

# 16. TODO
# 35. TODO
