---
layout: post
title: Blog 9
---

### 1. What is the purpose of metadata? What are the categories of metadata?
Metadata is the word used to describe data that exists to describe other data. However it's meaning can also extend to describe data that is associated with other data. 

Metadata comes in many categories including:

* Structural
    - Data that describes the structure of other data
        + file formats
        + file sizes
* Descriptive data
    - Data that enables the identification of other data through description
        + author
        + date of creation
        + date of modification
        + title
        + genre
* Administrative data
    - Describes data with descriptions relevant to administration
        + date of modification
        + modifier
        + owner
        + copyright agreement

---

### 2. What is a controlled vocabulary? How is a controlled vocabulary beneficial to a web site and/or organisation?
A controlled vocabulary is a list of words that are relevant within your context. These benefit websites and organizations by offering consistency. They also make it possible to relate terms and improve discover-ability.

---

### 3. List the four main types of controlled vocabularies.

* Synonym rings.
* Classification Schemes.
* Thesauri.
* Authority files.

---

### 4. What is the purpose of a synonym ring? Give examples of terms that would be considered equivalent under a synonym ring. What might happened during a search if you didn’t use a synonym ring? (Give an example.)
A synonym ring is a set of words that are considered equivalent. Synonym rings can contain exclusively synonyms or can additionally contain common misspellings of words (although this is usually handled through other means such as finding all mutations of a word on a Directed Acyclic Word Graph within a certain Levenshtein distance).

* Truck
* Ute
* Lorry
* Pickup

If a search were to exclude the use of a synonym ring an Englishman who comes overseas to Australia may search for a _Lorry_ on an Australian car website but be returned no results. As where with a synonym ring active he may be returned the results he was looking for despite the unfamiliar wording.

---

### 5. What is the purpose of an authority file? Describe how an authority file can educate users during search.
An authority file is a file that lists preferred terms for a or a group of other terms. They are similar to synonym rings as the terms in the group should be considered equivalent to each other. However, in a authority file there is a single term that is preferred over the others. The use of authority files typically results in the users search term being substituted with the preferred term and can improve the quality of results. This technique can even educate the user occasionally with the _proper_ term for what they are after.

---

### 6. Create an authority file for abbreviations of the Australian states and territories.

```
QLD -> Queensland
NSW -> New South Wales
SA  -> South Australia
ACT -> Australian Capitol Territory
VIC -> Victoria
WA  -> Western Australia
NT  -> Northern Territory
TAS -> Tasmania
```

---

### 7. Describe the purpose of a classification scheme. How does a web site benefit from a classification scheme?
Classification Schemes organize terms into hierarchies. These allows the classification of terms into groupings, these groupings can then also be classified into groupings. This allows tree style hierarchies to form linking terms to one another.

---

### 8. Create a classification scheme for several major dog breeds based on whether the dog is toy, small, medium, large, or giant.

    Toy     |   Small       |   Medium   |   Large   |   Giant
------------|---------------|------------|-----------|----------------
Toy Poodle  | Jack Russell  | Beagle     | Labrador  | Great Dane
Chihuahua   | Pomeranian    | Corgi      | Greyhound | Tibetan Mastiff

---

### 11. What topics would the following codes retrieve under Dewey Decimal Classification:

* 025.524 
    - Library Operations
* 787.87092 
    - Stringed Instruments _(Chordophones)_
* 641.623 
    - Food & Drink
* 634.772
    - Orchards, fruits, forestry
* 522.29
    - Techniques, equipment, materials

---

### 16. What is the purpose of thesauri? How is a thesaurus beneficial to searching on a web site?
Thesauri represent networks of linked terms. Synonyms, homonyms, broader/narrower and related terms may be included. They help users get relevant results by including terms related to the users term.

---

### 19. Consider the preferred term _car_. List a variant term(s), broader term, narrower term, and related term(s).

* Variant
    - Automobile
* Broader
    - Vehicle
    - Transport
* Narrower
    - BMW
* Related
    - Tires

---

### 20. Consider the preferred term _sword_. List a variant term(s), broader term, narrower term, and related term(s).

* Variant
    - Blade
* Broader
    - Weapon
* Narrower
   -  Saber
* Related
    - Fighting

---

### 30. Design a  controlled vocabulary for your proposed Drupal web site.

#TODO
