---
layout: post
title: Blog 10
---

### 1. Describe the five stages of integrating information architecture into the web development process.

* Research
    - Gain understanding of the business needs.
    - Gain understanding of the existing technology.
    - Gain understanding of the target audience.
* Strategy
    - Decide on bottom-up or top-down strategy.
* Design
    - Mockup with blueprints, wireframes and schema.
* Implementation
    - Build the site.
    - Test the site.
    - Document the site.
    - Create manuals and hand-off documentation.
* Administration
    - Tag new documents.
    - Monitor user feedback and usage.
    - Identify potential improvements.

---

### 2. In terms of assessing technology, what is a gap analysis?
Gap analysis involves looking at the goals of the users and of the business, and assessing whether there is a _gap_ between these goals and the existing technology.

---

### 3. When gathering content for content analysis, describe an approach that would capture a representational sample of a site’s content.
The Noah's Ark approach to gather representative samples of a sites content tries to capture a _couple_ of each type of _document_. This should result in a broad sample of a sites content.

---

### 4. Describe the differences between structural metadata, descriptive metadata, and administrative metadata.

* Structural Metadata
    - Describes the hierarchy of a document and how the document is _structured._
* Descriptive Metadata
    - Data or information that _describes_ the document. 
        + Genre
        + Author
        + Date of creation
* Administrative Metadata
    - Data that assists in the _administration_ of a document or piece of data.
        + File permissions (ownership, read/write permissions)
        + Date of creation
        + Date of modification
        + Modification history (blame files)

---

### 5. What are competitive and before-and-after benchmarking?

* Competitive benchmarking is the comparison of two websites.
* Before-and-after benchmarking is a comparison between two versions of the same website.
    - Used to understand if made are actually helping.

---

### 6. What are the benefits of competitive benchmarking?

* Allows you to understand what your competitors do better then you. 
* Conversely you may find things your system does better then the competitor and can use this to help sell your system.
* Helps bring in ideas from sources external to your company.
* Can create a list of features to compare.

---

### 7. What are the benefits of before-and-after benchmarking?

* Allows measurement of the performance benefit of an improvement in various ways.
* Enables you to check that changes actually are improving a users experience.
* The net result is that you can be sure your websites performance will continue to improve.

---

### 8. What is clickstream analysis, and why is it important?
Clickstream analysis reveals the way users navigate websites. It can reveal what systems work well for your website and what ones do not, allowing you to direct your efforts and focus on improvements where needed.

---

### 9. What sort of information can you learn about users from search log analysis?
Through search log analysis you can establish what keywords common searches use. This knowledge helps with the creation of various controlled vocabularies.

---

### 10. What should be the goals for surveying users from an information architecture perspective?

* Satisfaction levels.
* What frustrates users.
* What content users find the most valuable.
* What _tool_ users find easiest to use to navigate.

---






### 24. Undertake the following tasks for your Drupal web site assignment:
a. Add content to your Drupal web site using pages and articles (be sure to use
alternate text for your images); and
b. Implement menus.

#TODO

---

### 25. Undertake the following tasks for your Drupal web site assignment:
a. Explore different themes and modules to expand your web site’s functionality and
visual appeal; and
b. Create a Facebook page or Twitter account to promote you web site. Place a link
to your promotional page on your blog.

#TODO
